Distinctiveness and Complexity: 

To present how my habit builder website is different then any other projects, I will be presenting following things :
1. Motivation for building the website and purpose it serves

2. How it is different in working, based on complexities and with respect to purpose. 


1. Motivation for building the website : Often, habit tracking websites help in keeping count of streak and failures throughout the process of building or breaking a habit, but it doesn't push or help the user to reach the goal.Often times as a student I tried to get rid of several bad habits like bad sleeping habits, random midnight snacks etc. For that I often took help of habit tracking app. In most of these apps and websites, we get one template to add all good nad bad habit, and it just checks progress, tell you your historical scores and removes the habit, or restart the count of the habit once failed. When I used it I realized that it somehow made me either feel very good or very bad, like being on a streak for a month and seeing that popping up on such websites made me feel really good, but also loosing on some habits after long streaks made me feel much worse, and my tendency to re start building on that habit was much below the threshold of my will. This made me realize that these websites didn't help me bulding or breaking my habits, it is unknowingly making me feel either very good or very bad about my self, both of which is not good for me. 
So, I wanted to make a website that not just tracks the progress and tell the user what they did very good or what they are bad in, but a website that acutally help them stack up good habits, one upon other easily. 
I wanted to make a website  where people can reflect on their habit process, document it, track it, make To-do list so that they can prepare there day to lead to success in performing the habit everyday. With multiple pages where they can track different habits with singular focus on that habit not distracted by other habits on same page, where they can make plan or to do list to prepare a perfect day to execute each habit, a page where they can reflect of what did go good and bad for them- this habit builder website provides everything a user needs in habit building process from a website, and help them boost their progress. 

Purpose it serves : This website actually gives everything a user needs while building habit, in one place. When a person can see what they have to do everyday at same page, and have a note taking and to do list making option present right over there, it becomes very easy for them to schedulize their day by prioritizing getting successfull in doing or breaking that habit on that day. 
Making schedule, that pushes the person to do the habit or not do it at all, increases the probability of actually implementing and becoming successfull on that habit. 
Furthermore, if they ever fall back or fail in the habit, they get the seperate notes just to reflect on what went wrong that time which lead them to break their streak. This helps the person bring awerness in them and thus be more present next time of the same mistake if they reflected on it. 
So everytime user gets to that page, they can see the schedule they need to follow to succeed, mistakes they did which they don't have to do again to avoid falling back again, and their current status for that habit - all can be seen at one place. So that they don't get distracted over ton of things on internet. 
Finally, they can track different types of habits at different pages, by making seperate templates for each habit. By this way, they don't get overwhelmed by seeing so many good habits to do, or bad habits to break at one place. They can focus on one type of habit at a time by being on that particular template. 
Further, by providing these features to user at one place also inculcate further many good habits in them, like journaling their thoughts and experience, make schedule, tracking progress, etc. and also provides correct procedure in which the habit should be created and stacked upon other good habits.

